---
layout: page
title: Robots 101 - Theming
---

Welcome (back) to the Robots 101 series! This time, we’re addressing theming
your robot.

Theming your robot might not seem important at first, but having consistency
between your robot, your team and social media goes a long way to delivering a
strong message that your team is fully committed to the competition. Plus, those
who may want to get involved in the team, but don’t want to build or code, still
have an opportunity to leave a mark on your robot. Having a solid design for the
outside of your robot before starting the rest of the process may even help your
decision on how to tackle the event!

Step one is the planning phase. Get your team together to discuss general titles
for your theme. Whether it’s cyberpunk or gothic, nothing should be written off
immediately in this process. Give everyone the chance to share their ideas
before deciding on a few “final” ideas. At this point, you could start finding
images that visualise your theme and begin collating them. You may find the most
popular theme may not work at this point - and that’s ok!

Next, you could try and create some concepts of how your robot and team mates
would look at the competition. This is done best when each visualisation is
unique, so that merging parts of each design together to create a final product
is easier down the line. You could try using materials that your team already
has on hand to make a prototype shell of your robot, or using basic wardrobe
items to block out clothing choices.

Remember, your team’s theme will likely develop throughout the building process
as you come up with new ways to tackle the competition. Let this happen! Being
rigid in your design process will almost certainly cause issues later down the
line. By the time your team gets to the final competition you’ll have a unique
style to your robot, your competitors and your socials.

To give you some ideas, we've included some photos of teams we think did
particularly well at previous competitions.

<img src="/images/content/blog/robots-101/sr2022-hrs-team-photo.png" alt="2022 - HRS: Hills Road's “Ducktor Who” As well as theming their robot, small rubber ducks were placed around the event, as well as given to other teams." />

<img src="/images/content/blog/robots-101/sr2019-hab-team-photo.png" alt=" 2019 - HAB: Haberdashers’ Aske’s Boys’ School won the Robot and Team Image award with their Hawaiian theme. This was complimented with inflatable palm trees and a 3D paper pineapple on top of their robot." />

<img src="/images/content/blog/robots-101/sr2016-mai-team-photo.png" alt="2016 - MAI: ‘Measure, Analyze, Improve’ from Gymnasium Markt Indersdorf, who came all the way from Germany looking very Frankenstein-esque, wearing their bio-hazard suits and zombie face paints. Their robot was a rotten-fleshy-green colour with a brain exposed." />

<img src="/images/content/blog/robots-101/sr2015-mai-team-photo.png" alt="2015 - MAI: “42 * 2 - Double Vision” from Gymnasium Markt Indersdorf, came dressed as monks in hooded brown robes, laced with glowing LED strips." />

<img src="/images/content/blog/robots-101/sr2014-hrs-team-photo.png" alt="2014 - HRS: Systemetric (HRS) impressed the judges with their steampunk costumes and brass and mahogany robot (pictured)." />
